we're going to go now to john stockwell
from his home in Elgin Texas john
stockwell is former top ranking CIA
officer good morning John
good morning well as you pointed out it
is a new world order what is the shape
and contour of that new world order as
you see it well as a matter of fact I
think you know I've got a book coming
out press title the Praetorian Guard the
u.s. role in the New World Order some
very significant thing have happened in
the world since I last spoke up in
Colorado
oh it's become clear that the US and the
USSR were effectively one broken and the
other ones economically by the Cold War
the military is no longer in control of
its economic future this four and a half
trillion dollar debt the Soviet Union
and much worse say but the interesting
thing is that the the new world order of
course the world's financial order of
which mr. Bush and family are very dusty
strong members and deeply committed to
they control world enhance and and of
course the US economy but the us to
build a military superpower and this
creates the situation where we're right
up front become the world's cops we were
in a sense before but now more so and
more clearly the Persian Gulf War of
course which I'm following did you know
by the way that I predicted a year ago
actually 15 months ago in public
presentations that George Bush would be
shopping for a war about now know what
informed that prediction well it was not
a shot in the dark
nine months before the invasion of
Panama I had predicted that he would
invade Panama could announce Noriega
nakute it
this is you know my 13 year study of the
u.s. marches the war in secret wars over
Wars and the dynamics and why we do
these things and when we do them and so
it was my analysis and prediction and of
course it turned out to be a right on I
was not sure the war would be in the
Persian Gulf
Reagan pulled back from getting involved
in the iran-iraq war because despite
what he would consider provocations
because the logistics are so bad and the
dynamics of the Middle East complexities
of politics there may not work in the US
interest I don't believe they will in
the long term but this Praetorian Guard
concept of the u.s. we're obviously not
fighting for cheaper oil in fact they've
Jimmy the oil price has kicked them up
at the pumps and you and I are still
paying higher prices for oil for
gasoline than we were in July for
example as last year the middleman of
course ripping off the difference the
world prices didn't determine that the
middleman the Texas oil man fo mr. Bush
is a ranking member but this oil the
Saudi Arabia Kuwait the oil we're
actually allegedly fighting for over
their massive source it's not US oil we
don't own it and we don't buy it the
Saudis and Kuwaiti zone it and Japanese
and Germans buy most of it and the
Japanese right up front Newsweek has had
an article on this two weeks ago to
article 2 issues ago noting the Japanese
are not supporting us heavily in this
war because they're not concerned suddam
Hussein will sell them the oil just like
Kuwait ease would and and may might be
even actually easier to deal with
instead of harder who knows he his
country has grievious economic problems
and the Kuwaiti czar sitting quite fat
for a number of years now and so the
Japanese have felt urgency whatsoever to
go
go to war and they're concerned at the
damage the war could do to the oil
fields and the to the production
environment in terms of the production
of oil I'm not sure their world
champions of environmental problems so
we're fighting a war for other people's
interests but also obviously for mr.
Bush's political interests are our
economy our nation with grievious
problems now effectively bankrupted and
pillars of the community major organs
establishment organs or acknowledging
what you and I were saying in the
mid-80s is over spending on the military
not on trade goods rendering the u.s.
non-competitive putting us in a position
where plunging deep in debt deep in Hawk
that debt won't go away and the piper
and of course the slashing of Social
Services the dropping of the u.s.
standard of living the deficits
continuing a pace these are problems
that mr. Bush helped create we were the
world's creditor nation richest country
in the 70s he and mr. Reagan bankrupted
it he's the president now he desperately
has to distract the nation from these
problems that he has very much helped to
create and the traditional solution is
to take us to war now fascinating thing
about this war is that they promised us
they being mr. Reagan mr. Bush to a
lesser sense in the 80s and especially
the military establishment they promised
us since the Vietnam War that we would
have another war in which we would erase
the Vietnam syndrome that we would
sooner or later have to demonstrate to
the world that we knew how to organize
mobilize ourselves to fight a good clean
war and of course in his interest the
military establishments interest mr.
Bush is getting gold stars all over the
place for his orchestration of this war
they picked an enemy very carefully
hüseyin is easily painted into the role
of a crate Antichrist Hitler a vicious
evil person who's done evil things and
they we now have the the details coming
out solidly documented I refer you to
Ralph Shulman's article about how the
u.s. feared Saddam Hussein in Iraq into
invading Kuwait and provoked him we
reassured him that we had no defence
agreement the Ambassador when he called
her in to talk she said the Secretary of
State has pulled me to emphasize that we
have no defence agreement with Kuwait
and so he invaded Kuwait thinking he was
on safe ground this doesn't make a saint
by any means
quite the contrary I'm not not fond of
this man at all
so John you're suggesting that the
United States the Bush administration
lured or seduced Saddam Hussein into
invading Kuwait oh this is not I mean
this is solid ER
at the time the Vietnam War kicked off
the tonkin resolution that detractors
the people in the peace community or the
more conservative with a small city
people were saying something's wrong
here it turned out history eventually
proved that the Gulf of Tonkin incident
was never happened as it was presented
and it was provoked literally by CI
raids on on attacked nasty craft they
called him at dawn in this case in this
war we have the provocation quite
detailed already this is not some
paranoid speculation of people to the
left one the CIA was working with the
Kuwait ease Ramsey Clark has brought out
some information about this working with
the Kuwait ease to destabilize Iraq and
provoke there was the Rumaila oil seals
which Kuwait seized and moved to tap
into there was the manipulation of world
oil prices at a time when Iraq was broke
and had a big depth
there was even before that the u.s.
encouraging Iraq to attack Iran back in
the 70s in the iran-iraq war if it adds
up to a well-documented prog program by
the u.s. working with the Kuwait is to
provoke Saddam Hussein into invading
Kuwait and and I you know having
predicted that the US would be shopping
for a war if they had left inside
lectures they wouldn't have done it or
at least they would have known what they
were getting into because I was
definitely assuring the world that mr.
Bush needed a war they spent the 80s
getting everything ready now in terms of
this Vietnam syndrome and his gold stars
and his interests his view of the world
his world order not mine certainly he's
got 85% of this nation supporting the
war or at least supporting the troops
that are over there the peace community
has a tremendous energy of feeling of
you know distress about the war but not
wanting to become angry yearning for a
better feeling about it and wearing
these yellow ribbons of you know we
support the troops we don't support the
war bring the troops back but we support
the troops and then of course I've been
of course to the demonstrations and
rallies and lectures like everyone else
listening carefully the word in the
peace community that seems to be coming
out continuously is that the peace
community has to avoid quote avoid the
mistakes of the Vietnam War
avoid castigating the soldiers
themselves that was allegedly a mistake
of the Vietnam War I sit back and and
wonder would the the people of this
country have succeeded in stopping the
Vietnam War eventually if they had been
sending messages of love to the people
on the ground who were doing the killing
in the Vietnam War the soldiers there
were drafted they didn't have a choice
in this war
it's a volunteer army everybody over
there volunteered to join the military
not one single one of them was drafted
and the if we have not had Chicago in 68
and Kent State and Berkeley and the
massive angry energy and the peace
community I read the gram I reread the
grameen gur book the history of violence
in America in which they conclude that
there has never been substantial social
change revolutionary change in the u.s.
without violence or at least the serious
threat of boycotting and disruption
people have to stand up and and draw a
line and project their disapproval but
again George Bush has succeeded as they
have sort of warned the nation down with
their orchestrations and with appeals to
greatness and standing tall and
self-righteousness
he's got 85% of the people as the polls
show supporting what he's doing or at
least supporting the troops some of them
saying well I don't like the war there
were other options but we have to stop
Saddam Hussein and again the peace
community supporting the soldiers to
spur over there by their own volition
doing these these very violent things
what's your assessment of the media
coverage of the Iraq war oh I had great
hopes in the fall that that this war
would be stopped
despite Bush's need for it and his
efforts orchestrate eventually
successfully because there was a big
schism and the military against it the
military's often more reluctant than the
politicians to actually go to work
President Reagan and Secretary of State
George Shultz were arguing publicly for
an invasion of Nicaragua in the mid 80s
and it was the Pentagon the Joint Chiefs
and Caspar Weinberger the Secretary of
Defense who said not with our Defense
Department you don't unless it's a
popular war
see the military wants the perks they
want the money to flow if the money's
blowing they don't want to risk that
with all the trauma of war on the Buddy
bags they're more cautious about
actually plunging into war with all its
worst than the politician not always but
often and we saw the Commandant of the
Marine Corps the commander of the forces
general Schwarzkopf over there in the
Persian Gulf area senior Admirals -
former chairman of the Joint Chiefs
testifying to the Congress that we
should not plunge into this thing we
should wait a year or two to see what
the sanctions could do and how it could
be worked out
and I was hoping this energy from the
military would actually stop this thing
but cause in the establishment it with
the power and influence of the military
since their solid arguments against it
we saw the media giving much better and
more balanced coverage of of this this
war than we had for example of the
Contra program in Nicaragua which almost
brought us into war and the Vietnam War
and other military of Panama for example
other military activities we've
undertaken where the press generally the
major media press generally floats
smoothly along this one was debated pros
and cons were published daily and the
papers and CNN and during the first
hours and days of the the war the
Persian go for it self lots of mention
of demonstrations and the controversy in
the US again I'm not sure they would
have done this if there had not been a
deep rift and the establishment itself
about whether or not this thing is wise
now in terms of the detail of the combat
of what's happening over there of course
we had we have massive manipulation by
the Pentagon by the defense as they
promised to do as they promised to do
back in the Vietnam War
several SEC Dean Rusk others said that
the next war could not be fought
candidly in front of the TV cameras you
can't have they say generals in the
field making decision
with the TV cameras hanging right over
their shoulders after the in you
remember during the invasion of Grenada
the press was sealed out of the island
and all they were able to show to the
nation were what the army PSYWAR people
had developed on videos and given to
them afterwards general Seidel headed a
commission with meeting with the leaders
of the media and and an agreement was
reached that they would form a press
pool that would cover future Wars and of
course they were quite aware of the fact
that we would have future Wars not any
possibility in their minds that we would
not have future wars and actions and
invasions and things so now and the
Persian Gulf we see the seidel
Commission principals working with the
press pool the only the military can
really get into Iraq they're releasing
to us fascinating clippings of
successful missile firings with the TV
cameras in the nose of the missile so we
can see them going right into the
building and then the second one going
right into the exact same place and this
is very moving you know Nintendo game is
really working in real life they're not
showing us the missiles that are going
into civilian housing areas and missing
and the planes that are crashing into
each other and falling down all wars are
chaotic this one as much as any other
it's fascinating to note that they are
right now in the last two days paying a
grievous price for this because they
oversold in the first hours and days
with the fun of using finally this new
equipment and actually firing these
missiles and bombing people with their
testosterone pumping massively they were
walking tall and crowing a lot and
showing all the successes and it didn't
work there were 2,000 rates the first
day and then 4,000 and suddenly it's
2,000 10,000 sorties already and they
were telling us after the second day
that they had taken out the Iraqi air
and
and they just couldn't they were jumping
up and down in their excitement with
their success and then these scuds keep
on coming in and they find out they've
only knocked out 18 of the rocks of 600
odd aircraft and the Secretary of
Defense had to admit that they had
miscalculated apparently Iraq has
hundreds of Scud missiles and hardened
silos that they can't get to some of
them they can't even get to them with
nuclear weapons if they used them and
then of course they're now right now
agonizing about reality which they had
discounted of what if Saddam Hussein
blows the oil fields and Kuwait what
price will that do to the availability
of this oil can the fields be
permanently damaged
I don't know perhaps not but they can
certainly be burned the massive smoke
that's going into the air right now
which affects tactics and strategy but
also the environment
they've taken a bold move by
orchestrating this war insisting that
there not be negotiations and plunging
into it and now the bills are starting
to come in already they have not
succeeded they have not brushed Iraq
aside as easily as they seem to feel
they would in the first few days and the
Pipers going to be paid the
environmental damage the damage to the
oil the frustration the frustration in
the media if you watch the press
conferences in the first few days the
media was caught in the excitement and
now they're beginning to challenge and
argue with the military psyche fight war
people who hold these briefings and give
them the tailored information I think
the US has got a big problem on its hand
and that's where they may prevail in two
or three months time I noticed my old
boss bill Colby just before the invasion
are the air strike
began saying of course we'll take out
the Iraqi air and missiles in one
afternoon it'll be a turkey shoot set
and I'm sure he's now looking in the
mirror and and regretting that he said
that his his memories of World War two
and his his testosterone affecting his
judgment we have not succeeded with this
ten thousand sorties yet we killed a lot
of people done a lot of them it hurt a
lot of people and in fact the wheat
since we're being given such carefully
tailored information we can't be sure
that the burning of these refineries and
Kuwait are not the result of the massive
us bombing we simply don't know we know
they're not telling us the whole truth
they're not showing us their failures
and their mistakes and they exist in
every war that's ever been fought so we
don't know probably they're telling the
truth about that probably the Iraqi
forces burned those refineries and oil
installations but we don't know they
could have been set off by massive b-52
strikes that were dropping their bombs
through the clouds and and missed by 50
miles or so John let's talk a little bit
about what you refer to as psyops
psychological operations and I'd like
you to discuss the notion and practice
of disinformation and blowback in the
context of two examples I think of that
that happened since the war broke out
the first being a report that six Iraqi
helicopters and their crews flew into
Saudi Arabia and defected and that fifty
Iraqi tanks and their crews turned
themselves over to Egyptian forces in
Saudi Arabia these reports were were
quoted almost verbatim in the mainstream
media as being accurate they have later
been revealed now to now reveal this to
be totally false as a as part of the
propaganda ploy yeah you recall in in my
book in search of enemies my first book
were
I was running the war for the National
Security Council in Angola a secret war
small thing without us worst is up front
involved but we had a kind of a loose
canon operative in the field and he was
he had tapped into the the world media
he'd found a way and was dumping stories
into the world media and he published a
report without clearing it with
headquarters of Soviet advisors 40 of
them being captured in a battle near
Milan gee and this is very dramatic
provocative information I mean if it if
Russians had been captured in an African
bush war that would be very important of
what would the Russians do what they put
in their armies so the world media
descended on the place and checked it
out and Jonas Savimbi said what battle
we're not even near Milan G and I don't
think there any Russians in Angola at
least I haven't heard of any and this
but fierce pressure on on the CIA on us
on my offices and especially on that guy
field for publishing a clumsy story that
could be proven or disproven and I see
this thing about the the alleged Iraqi
helicopter defection and the tanks which
the military if eventually admitted did
not seem to happen as clearly with some
side war people getting carried away and
dumping a story out there and it wasn't
true and it embarrassed the the chief
you know the Pentagon the White House
finestatt just just refused to address
it duck duck the issue but the side war
people are out there as they are
traditionally and even and peace but
especially in a hot one like this
pumping out stories trying at every
point to cast Saddam Hussein has you
know the epitome of evil and Iraq I mean
we have a situation I mind you I don't I
kind of
I regret very much the US has gone into
this war I wish we had not a wish we
would get out of it and find another
solution I think it's it's a disaster
this does not put me in a position of
vindicating or trying to or even wanting
to vindicate Saddam Hussein but we've
run 10,000 sorties over Iraq bombing and
strafing and rocketing and that you know
we're very righteous about that when
they fire missiles at Israel
that's pure terrorism and that's the way
it's being presented to us on the TV
continuously I doubt if the people on
the ground in in Iraq in Baghdad across
Iraq who are having were dead or having
her dying or having their loved ones
killed see the distinction at the same
time in in fairness and balance I
noticed an interesting difference in
Saddam Hussein's in the Iraqi conduct
they claimed historic rights to Kuwait
it was formally part of the rock it was
separated from Iraq by the colonial
powers they claimed a right to it and
that's part of their justification for
going back in and with the provocation
what's the u.s. encouraging them are
giving them as lee hamilton in the
congress giving them a green light to go
in you could you know a temptation to be
sympathetic for they're going in to cap
recapture to liberate their lost
providence come you come to a screeching
halt and any sympathy you might have
because of their conduct inside kuwait
it clearly was as was massively
documented rape and pillage and
destruction if you compare that for
example with the Vietnam War where I was
in Saigon and fled on the helicopters at
the end and and or fled with the
helicopters the N I actually went out on
the last
Pan Am flight right at the end if you
compare the NVA Army's conduct as they
liberated the south and Saigon the NVA
the North Vietnamese Army soldiers set
up their tents in the little parks and
the lanes between boulevards and ate
rice and water chestnuts for months as
they had out in the swamp while the
South Vietnamese people around them had
chicken and fish and Leeson and what
about their lives and you had to respect
there's been theory and claiming this
was a liberation they were not punishing
the people that they had eventually
respectively conquered they had beaten
the South Vietnamese army but they did
not punish people they were very careful
not to punish the people then they
launched their program of course of
purging of taking away quietly into
their indoctrination centers as they
call them Kola prisons if you will but
it was a rational process picking out
the people who've been leaders they felt
or could be leaders of resistance what
Saddam Hussein's forces did in Kuwait
you just can't be sympathetic for their
claims of of liberating their province
John you served in the CIA in Indochina
as well as in Angola you've seen Wars
and you've seen the strange bizarre
bedfellows that Wars make what do you
make of this alliance of the United
States and Syria Egypt Turkey Saudi
Arabia what's your assessment of that
well I'm I'm less enthusiastic for the
caliber of our bedfellows as you put it
that mr. Bush's of course this is the
greatest ego trip for any politician in
modern time since I don't know when of
being able to publicize and take credit
for bringing together a world order in
the direction of world government in the
direction of like the Roman Empire
except not conquering it but
nevertheless bringing it together and
bringing together coalition
of Arabs bathe along with Israel to
support what we're doing and finally
getting US forces installed in Saudi
Arabia were doubtless they will remain
for for eternity to begin with we make
such an issue of the horror the
unprovoked attack by the Iraqis on
Kuwait well it may have been in a sense
provoked actually but painting Saddam
Hussein as evil is he any in fact any
more evil than our allies now in Syria I
would argue not in fact he's done less
been less involved in terrorist
activities against us people and taking
of hostages and whatnot Syria put its
forces into Lebanon and took over the
direction of that country Israel put its
forces into Lebanon I mean countries
have been sending their armies across
borders in recent times in various parts
of the world without us becoming a upset
the people the leaders now I want to
clearly distinguish between the people
and Saudi Arabia and the people in
Kuwait but the government the people
that were actually supporting there
these these governments make no pretense
of democracy supposedly we invaded
Panama to restore democracy there these
people don't pretend democracy and
certainly they're not liberated they
don't resent they don't represent at
least my values my common values I don't
know about the rest of the world but
their repression of women they execute
women for adultery
I just cannot sympathize with that or
support it or sympathize with a program
they're venal they're corrupt they have
tons and tons billions of dollars from
their control of the oil in their
countries
I don't believe frankly that one person
from this country should go over and die
to protect
these people and again I'm referring to
a handful of people in each country to
protect their glutton gluttonous oil
interests this is the way I feel about
it obviously some people disagree you
notice in a paper today the papers
Egyptians others fleeing from Iraq
enraged before two weeks ago they were
saying you know they hated they loathed
Saddam Hussein but now having been under
the US bombs and rockets and having
taken their losses and that and the
trauma of the thing they're raging
against what the US is doing in Iraq to
the people of Iraq now this was
predictable this is going to be a
tremendous engine of hostile negative
energy to the u.s. in the Arab world I
don't think George Bush's coalition is
going to have a solid long-term effect
unless we move into an extremely
repressive brutal era in the Middle East
in which the US and its allies over
there are just being extremely ham
handed on their own people and and
repressing them greatly as resentment
against the United States predictably
mount we're talking to john stockwell
former CIA officer on kju in boulder
colorado
john is joining us from his home in
Elgin Texas the number here is four four
nine four eight eight five if you'd like
to talk to john stockwell please give us
a call John I was wondering what you
thought of the rather sudden and
passionate allegiance that the United
States the Bush administration
particularly has shown toward the United
Nations is there that strike you as
ironic since the US has not had the
support of the United Nations for the
last 20 years and has especially Reagan
Bush in the 80s were threatening to shut
the UN down to cut off its money putting
enormous pressure on it
it was one of the main planks of the
conservative platform with a capital C
was to shut down the UN because it
didn't support the US Empire's interest
and and never really had so why should
we fund this organization which voted
continuously are so often against our
interest Bush saw an opportunity to work
through it in bringing together his new
world order in this alliance against
Iraq and Saddam Hussein and their
invasion of Kuwait and so suddenly you
know he loves the UN because he is able
effectively to use it right now I see
this as fairly normal and understandable
in the cynicism of world politics John
we've got of the whole line full of
calls can you stay with this for a while
how long another 15 minutes yes other
calls but I've agreed to make but thanks
so much I know you're really busy I used
to live in Colorado and I I love this I
wish I could move up there right now hi
you're on kgn you with john stockwell
hello yes you're on the air yes hi David
hi John thank you very much for filling
in some of the gaps my name is Bill a
question that keeps coming up or amongst
my friends his mom would it help to kill
Saddam and do you think we're actually
in reality targeting him and I'll take
my answer off the air Oh without any
question the u.s. is targeting said I'm
Hussein but they're smart enough having
learned the lessons twice before in
Panama especially they were with the
media watching closely they were
targeting Noriega and
so now they're careful to say that they
are not targeting Saddam Hussein but
it's because the Pentagon has admitted
that he is apparently safe in massive
reinforced bunkers underneath his palace
that even nuclear weapons wouldn't crack
and the fact that they know this so
clearly you know indicates that they're
thinking about it
yes indeed if Saddam Hussein were killed
it would change the energy and nature
and leadership of what's happening over
there I have no idea I freely admit I
have no sense of whatsoever of who might
replace him and whether they would have
the same policies and hang on against
the United States in this war or whether
they would commit you late if he was
suddenly gone well John just to sort of
follow up on that did not the United
States attempt to assassinate Muammar
Gaddafi of Libya in 1985 from in that
aerial bombardment yeah I said there
were two cases where we tried and failed
yes they definitely targeted moammar
qaddafi they fire rockets at his home
where they had intelligence 45 minutes
before the raids that he was there and
he had either full warned or my lucky
accident had left and they killed his 18
year-old daughter instead and then
having justified their view of a very
harsh world where you killed people you
don't like the White House under Ronald
Reagan of course was not apologetic even
for killing his daughter so they tried
twice before failed to kill world
leaders they were targeting so this time
they're careful not to say they're
targeting him good morning you're on kju
with john stockwell good morning David
and good morning John yeah listen I
commend what you gentlemen are doing
about keeping the free flow of
information and views highly managed
stage-managed mainstream media and my
question boss though I would like to say
that I oppose this war with all my heart
the question I have for you John is
whether you feel there is any likelihood
given that according to report the
United States has nuclear weapons over
there with their logistical planning and
so forth whether you feel the United
States would covertly employ the use of
low-yield tactical nuclear weapons
before this the violence broke out back
in even in September I was talking to
better hits than mine people like
Admiral Carol at the Center for defense
information about that and asking him
exactly that question and he was saying
emphatically not the US would not use
nuclear weapons we had former governor
Secretary of the Navy John Connolly at
one point said if we're going to do it
we ought to go in and nuke Baghdad and
just get it over with I believe there
was an op-ed by Jim thing who's been
pretty moderate overall and pretty good
about revealing the u.s. budgetary and
financial problems suggesting that we
should really go in heavy get this thing
over with cleanly arguing that there
would be fewer deaths and less suffering
overall if we did that one of the
factors involved here in the use of
nuclear weapons I think is that the u.s.
clearly needed the Bush administration
needed and wanted this war and
steamrolled opposition to get it I don't
think they wanted over in the first day
it won't be a sufficient pageant in fact
a certain amount of struggle will be
useful to their purpose this prolong the
distraction of the people in this
country from the real problems facing
this nation and I agree
now obviously if it goes on for a long
time then they're gonna start looking
bad and it'll backfire upon them now
remember we have conventional bombs that
are almost as powerful as nuclear
weapons now there are other ways to go
about it
a what Admiral Carol mentioned to me
back and I think it was in October
possibly late September I'd have to look
at my note was his concern was he was
sure the US would not initiate to use
the nuclear weapons but he was afraid
that Israel might if this drill started
taking some heavy hit they might
retaliate with nuclear weapons and I was
deeply concerned
that however in the last few days is the
Scud missiles have been falling in and
around Tel Aviv the Israelis have
actually shown a great deal of restraint
and retaliating they have not retaliated
by knowledge at all well they're up
there obviously thinking about it and
about to much less going in with nuclear
weapon look let's go to another college
and David yeah don't cut me off on this
because uh according to reports unless
they're totally unreliable the United
States has four hundred nuclear weapons
over there at this point my question and
it has not been answered is whether or
not John or you David feel there's any
likelihood of the United States covertly
covertly using low-yield tactical
nuclear weapons now would you please
answer that well I was trying to answer
that I do not think the US will it could
not be covert it would be known the use
of nuclear weapons yes we definitely
have several hundred over there they go
with these great battle grooves we
certainly have the capability there a
redundancy by hundreds of what we would
need to crack Iraq or damage it vastly
more than we are now but it could not
become secret it would be too
controversial the word would come out
I've thought about that in terms of
provocations and czars by war people and
the strategist definitely do thing and
war especially to be blamed on the other
side might they crack off even a dirty
little weapon and make it look like the
Iraqis had done it and again I think not
I think there's too much controversy
over nuclear weapons inside the Pentagon
inside the defense establishment for
them to hope to keep it secret well John
I hope you're right
q and we work thanks for calling all
right good morning you on kjn you with
john stockwell hi um first of all i'd
like to say that i'm very gratified to
listen to this conversation because mr.
Stockwell is defending a thesis that
i've been trying to convince people of
for years
with far less information than he has my
question is regarding the dome
police state mechanism I called a couple
of days ago and challenged another guest
on the authoritarian and powerful nature
of the police state mechanism that the
Reagan and Bush administration's have
been skillfully building up for the last
few years and my question to him was at
what point do we give up on this
democracy and acknowledge that it is no
longer a democracy in there's no longer
meeting our needs as a people and
replace it with something that does and
he accused me of being a provocateur now
that indicates a high level of paranoia
in the peace community against something
that happened during the Vietnam War and
that was a high degree of provocateurs
and by the FBI and other interested
parties in the peace movement trying to
get the agenda to be too radical to be
tenable and also distribution of LSD and
all kinds of other things my question to
mr. Stockwell is in his expert opinion
realizing that he's not an FBI veteran
but CIA instead nonetheless in your
opinion what danger do you believe these
activists are in I mean when to the
quiet knocks on the door and America
start happening and when do people start
disappearing well this is another thing
that I had talked about a year ago in
terms of there and before that in terms
of the establishment the Bush White
House during the 80s they you know their
objectives in this war during the 80s
they were laying on the FEMA program the
actual infrastructure for cracking down
on people in this country I see the
brush going back and forth across the
u.s. each time leaing
leaving behind another layer painting on
restrictions and anti-democratic
controls in this society so far they're
doing it in such a way that they're
effectively selling it to the American
people I'll give you two quick examples
because we're obviously running low on
time one the great drug war that has
mobilized the nation quite success
the figures are now coming out and there
is so much sham in this war that
conservatives columnist William F
Buckley is joining Anthony Lewis and
others in condemning this thing for
example in 1985 we have the figures the
DEA and EPA figures and the US Bureau of
mortality they estimate three thousand
five hundred and sixty-two people died
as a direct use of drugs of controlled
substances that's 100 less than a
hundred the number of people that died
from tobacco and alcohol use it's half
the number of people who died from
overdosing on prescription drugs 3,500
compared with about 40,000 that died
from passive cigarette smoke and yet
they have used this drug war
successfully to to just obliterate
almost a massive attack on the bill of
right the old innocent until proven
guilty and your right to trial by a jury
of your peers and all of that is now
effectively history they can work up a
paper on you DEA officers describing you
as a drug dealer and on the basis of
that paper with they can take away your
house car and pound your bank account so
that you can't hire attorneys to defend
you without indicted you much less
trying you and convicting you now a
second example of this brush passing
over each time leaving behind less
freedom and less democracy I was
traveling in the early days on electric
to run home for a couple of days now the
early days of this Persian Gulf War and
the airports were blanketed with
security they arbitrarily hauled off
several hundred cars in the airport in
Austin Texas because of you went in and
you were stopped if you were blue eyed
wasp forgive me for using that term like
me
and with a very Anglo name you've passed
right on through but if you had anything
resembling a middle-eastern name or
looked like you might come any from the
Middle East you were stopped and pulled
politely to one side and questioned now
the interesting thing is this control in
the airport this this conditioning the
people to control is that they
interviewed lots of people and everybody
the interview was saying oh yeah I buy
it we can't have this you know I feel
safer because of this crackdown and each
time again the brush passes over we lose
our freedoms and apparently most of the
people buy it and are accepting it and
are being conditioned to accept
something much less than democracy now
your position yes you stand up and call
it like it is and express your concerns
and you're attacked I certainly get this
all the time but it may give you some
some sense of shared energy and
leadership Francis parental [ __ ] friend
though one of the greatest leaders that
I know in in the u.s. progressive peace
movement a former Texas Legislature
president of a college now I believe is
the chair of IPs in Washington working
with Ramsey Clark talking to him about
the impeachment proceedings against
George Bush now for this war her her
stated objective for us for the the
people of the United States who value
and cherish democracy is that we must
repeal the National Security Act of 1947
we've got to rise up and say democracy
is what counts in this country not
George Bush's new world order controlled
in the interests of a very small group
of people who have the big bucks in the
world and get this country back in the
direction of freedom and civil rights
and the things that supposedly stands
for should stand for and get it away
from this national security FEMA and the
taking away the destruction of the Bill
of Rights
we've got one last call John good
morning can you thanks for waiting thank
you David I'm curious about the peace
movement and its association or support
of our troops in the Middle East I don't
want to support the George Bush is
having succeeded in putting the peace
community so much on the psychological
defensive that it's this yellow armbands
and yellow ribbons that a big
demonstration in Austin I thought about
it and refused to wear one when I got up
to speak and I said you know with a
little respect to everyone and no anger
and hate at anyone including troops over
there
I'm not going to wear one of those
ribbons because those are volunteer
troops who joined the army of their own
volition and went over to do these
violent things and they all had a choice
of not joining and not going and they
went in there killing now I made the
analogy between if if you for example
supposing you had a son I might have
grown you know grown children supposing
your son had joined a gang and was into
vandalism and maybe was killing people
he wouldn't stop loving this done but
you certainly would not approve of the
activities you would not support the and
this fund or daughter as they went to
the gang meetings and and participated
in the violence it wouldn't be enough to
say
or two I love you but don't do that you
have to take a firmer position and
condemn what they're doing I believed
that the peace movement now mind you
people in the audience some of them at
first we're calling out at the first
time in 13 years but I've given a my six
hundred odd lectures and speeches that
people in the audience were yelling
disapproval with what I was saying by
the time I finished they had stopped but
some people were saying for example they
didn't want to fight they wanted a
scholarship well I'm sorry but that's
person Ares involved if you go into the
military in order to get some money
you've become mercenary and you've lost
I believe the option of later thing well
I didn't really want the fight I just
wanted a scholarship there are other
ways I I think we have to be people in a
peace community yearning for yearning to
feel good about something as horrible as
war not wanting to get into to the
feelings of anger and blame and fault
now mind you in the first days and
months even years of the Vietnam War
there was a lot of support kind of like
what's happening here which faded as the
war was not successful I think if this
thing goes on for three years or five
years of course it will become fiercely
unpopular but it's it's a sad commentary
that a lot of people who are basically
anti-war will nevertheless see the the
pageantry of bombing and strafing and
rockets and support it and then again a
shy away from a firmer position of about
what's being done and they will we don't
want to blame the men and women on the
ground there we don't want to be angry
with them and I don't know if you're if
you're Christian you might go back to
the Bible where Jesus took on the
moneychangers then showed anger instead
there's a time when you have to be angry
and up to what's happening John I'm
afraid we've run out of time we really
like to thank you for your generosity
this Wednesday morning I know you're
absolutely totally busy with with lots
of interviews thanks so much and to you
and to all our keychain you listeners
for calling and for those of you who
couldn't get through to john stockwell
thanks and we hope to have you back on
again very soon thank you very much to
all up thank you that was former CIA
case officer john stockwell he served in
the Congo in Vietnam and he was director
of the secret war in Angola
this is ke GNU in Boulder it's a minute
past the hour of nine o'clock you've
been listening to Special K GNU coverage
of the Gulf War I'm David Barse on down
thank you